---
title: "Regular meeting (Feb 2021)"
date: 2021-02-02
---

8 ppl attended

## Organisational issues

- Twitter account experiences
  - After an initial peak of activity the number of tweets and retweets is now slowly dying down. But we have 217 followers!
  - Everybody is very much invited to highlight observations that could be commented on or retweeted on the respective slack channel or the etherpad platform (https://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/ssla-tweets)
  - The twitter team considers prescheduling regular tweets e.g. based on open-archeo (https://github.com/zackbatist/open-archaeo) or the ctv-archaeology (https://github.com/benmarwick/ctv-archaeology)
- Update of the homepage
  - Joe Roe proposed an alternative setup with hugo
  - This setup is superior in terms of accessability for the disabled and has other technical advantages
  - Vote to switch to the new setup: 8/8 Yes
  - Joe will prepare the switch with a PR to the website repository

## Upcoming conferences, meetings and sessions

- CAA2021 Workshop
  - Sophie Schmidt, Petr Pajdla and Clemens Schmid have prepared a general outline and the group agrees with it
  - The group highlights the importance of Git+Github, but agrees that it is going beyond the scope of this workshop. Collaborative work on code should be a topic for a workshop in the future

## Open exchange about activities and software updates

- List of upcoming conferences
  - Martin Hinz prepared a prototype here: https://martinhinz.github.io/ssla_conf_list
  - He will integrated this into the main website via PR at some point
- List of teaching materials
  - This does not exist yet, but could be prepared in the future and would then be integrated into the website just as the list of conferences
- Upcoming talk at the Archaeological Information Interest Group: Building ARCS - The Archaeology Resource Cataloging System (https://utoronto.zoom.us/meeting/register/tZAof--hqzMiGNbmOi73WFet-G_cd_BgAJgo)

## Next meeting: Friday, March 5, 2021
