---
title: "7th regular meeting"
date: 2021-05-14
---

6 ppl attended

## Organisational issues

- Twitter account [@CAA-SSLA](https://twitter.com/CAA_SSLA)
  - Is still very actively maintained
  - The Twitter subcommittee will have another organisational meeting soon
  - As usual everybody is invited to join (contact via Slack channel)
- Slack workspace [sslarch](sslarchworkspace.slack.com)
  - There is not too much activity in the open channels, but many use the workspace for peer-to-peer communcation or discussions among smaller groups

## Upcoming conferences, meetings and sessions

- CAA2021
  - The current conference schedule has some drawbacks - we hope for an updated version that does not split our [S17](https://github.com/sslarch/caa2021_packages) over two days
  - Workshop [S31](https://github.com/sslarch/caa2021_Rpackage_workshop)
    - Sophie Schmidt, Petr Pajdla and Clemens Schmid will soon meet to define the exact outline of the workshop
    - Multiple other SIG members offered to join the workshop as helpers and participants

## Open exchange about activities and software updates

- Extension [OpenArchaeo](https://open-archaeo.info/) [SIG Project]
  - Recent activity from external users introduced many software packages from archaeogenetics into the list
  - Similar extensions should be stimulated for other domains as well (e.g. Palaeoenvironment reconstruction, Compositional analysis, Aerial imaging)
  - This could work via explicit invitations to domain-specialists who also work with computer applications
  - Zack Batist already initiated the management of this SIG project in a slack channel (open-archaeo)

- [smada2021](https://github.com/MartinHinz/smada2021) book [SIG Project]
  - Martin Hinz is working on an open, online text book: Statistical methods for archaeological data analysis
  - He would like to stimulate contributions from SIG members to finish and polish it
  - As soon as the draft for the last chapter is finished at the end of this semester, he wants to move the repo to the SIG Github organisation and prepare a list of specific issues where he would like to get input

## Next meeting: Friday, June 4, 2021
